.TH PANIK 1 "2026-01-22" "0.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
panik \- package manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B panik
.RI [ options ] " command " [ arguments ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B panik
is a package manager for FoundryOS and most other linux distros.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-config " <dir>"
Use an alternative configuration directory.

.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-repo " <repo>"
Select target repository.

.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Assume yes for all prompts.

.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are available.

.SH HELP
.BR panik " \-h"
.br
.BR panik " \-\-help"
.P
Show help and exit.

.SH VERSION
.BR panik " \-v"
.br
.BR panik " \-\-version"
.P
Show version information and exit.

.SH SYNC
.BR panik " \-s " [ repo ] ...
.br
.BR panik " \-\-sync " [ repo ] ...
.P
Synchronize the local package index with repositories.
If no repository is specified, all repositories are synchronized.

.SH INSTALL
.BR panik " \-i " package ...
.br
.BR panik " \-\-install " package ...
.P
Install one or more packages.

.SH UPGRADE
.BR panik " \-u " [ package ] ...
.br
.BR panik " \-\-upgrade " [ package ] ...
.P
Upgrade packages.
If no package is specified, all installed packages are upgraded.

.SH REMOVE
.BR panik " \-r " [ package ] ...
.br
.BR panik " \-\-remove " [ package ] ...
.P
Remove packages.
If no package is specified, remove unneeded auto-installed packages.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B none-zero
Failure.
The exit status is the hash of the last error message.
.P
The numeric value of the hash is not guaranteed to be stable across versions.


.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/panik/
Configuration files.

.TP
.I /var/cache/panik/
Default package cache.

.TP
.I /var/lib/panik/
Default local data and indexes.

